update k8saudit-eks plugin blog post (#959)
falcosecurity/falco-website: content/en/blog/falco-plugin-k8saudit-eks.md

      "Effect":"Allow",
      "Action":[
        "logs:Describe*",
        "logs:FilterLogEvents",
        "logs:Get*",
        "logs:List*"
      ],
      "Resource":[
        "arn:aws:logs:${REGION}:${ACCOUNT_ID}:log-group:/aws/eks/${CLUSTER_NAME}/cluster:*"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

With:
* `REGION`: The Region of your EKS cluster
* `ACCOUNT_ID`: The ID of the account running the EKS cluster
* `CLUSTER_NAME`: The name of your cluster EKS cluster (same value than in your plugin configuration)

## Default Rules

A good thing about Kubernetes is that it brings standards into our industry. Despite a few differences, the cluster works in the same way and produces the same format of logs. This helps us enormously. By creating the [k8saudit plugin](https://github.com/falcosecurity/plugins/tree/master/plugins/k8saudit) we declared the fields to extract, as well as some default rules, which we can reuse for any plugin that consumes the same Audit Logs. It is a time saver for both, developers and adopters.

You can find the proposed default rules [here](https://github.com/falcosecurity/plugins/blob/master/plugins/k8saudit/rules/k8s_audit_rules.yaml).

## Installation

> For the installation, we'll use [`falcoctl`](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcoctl). We can use it as a CLI tool for a locale installation or as a sidecar for kubernetes. See [this blog post](https://org/blog/falcoctl-install-manage-rules-plugins/) for more informations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the installation, we'll use [`falcoctl`](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcoctl). We can use it as a CLI tool for a locale installation or as a sidecar for Kubernetes. See [this blog post](https://org/blog/falcoctl-install-manage-rules-plugins/) for more information.
```

 INFO  Resolving dependencies ...
 INFO  Installing the following artifacts: [ghcr.io/falcosecurity/plugins/plugin/k8saudit-eks:latest]
 INFO  Preparing to pull "ghcr.io/falcosecurity/plugins/plugin/k8saudit-eks:latest"
 INFO  Pulling b2daf90a878e: ############################################# 100% 
 INFO  Pulling 60b0846d1e18: ############################################# 100% 
 INFO  Pulling 12c7f0f5f00e: ############################################# 100% 
 INFO  Artifact successfully installed in "/usr/share/plugins"
```
```shell
 INFO  Reading all configured index files from "/root/.config/falcoctl/indexes.yaml"
 INFO  Resolving dependencies ...
 INFO  Installing the following artifacts: [ghcr.io/falcosecurity/plugins/plugin/json:latest]
 INFO  Preparing to pull "ghcr.io/falcosecurity/plugins/plugin/json:latest"
 INFO  Pulling 087dba2e76d6: ############################################# 100% 
 INFO  Pulling c4cb35bb528a: ############################################# 100% 
 INFO  Pulling 9b50ea237bc6: ############################################# 100% 
 INFO  Artifact successfully installed in "/usr/share/plugins" 
```

> We do the same with the rules for the audit logs (they are the same than for `k8saudit` plugin):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After installing the `k8saudit-eks` plugin, we also need to install the rules that it uses. (Those rules are the same as the `k8saudit` plugin rules.)
```

```shell
sudo falcoctl artifact install k8saudit-rules --resolve-deps=false
```

> and we get the rules in `/etc/:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And we get the rules in `/etc/:
```

```shell
 INFO  Reading all configured index files from "/root/.config/falcoctl/indexes.yaml"
 INFO  Installing the following artifacts: [ghcr.io/falcosecurity/plugins/ruleset/k8saudit:latest]
 INFO  Preparing to pull "ghcr.io/falcosecurity/plugins/ruleset/k8saudit:latest"
 INFO  Pulling b8c6b1def3eb: ############################################# 100% 
 INFO  Pulling 6b6f3231f2b2: ############################################# 100% 
 INFO  Pulling 91b2b7a9944d: ############################################# 100% 
 INFO  Artifact successfully installed in "/etc/ 
```

{{% pageinfo color="info" %}}

> By default, the installation of a rule sets comes with the associated plugins, in our situation, we have installed them by our own, this is why `--resolve-deps` is set to false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the installation of a ruleset comes with the associated plugins. In this blog, we have installed them on our own, this is why `--resolve-deps` is set to false.
```

Reviewer: What would happen if we didn't set `--resolve-deps=false`?

{{% /pageinfo %}}

> We now have the plugins and rules in our system, the last part is to configure ` to use them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We now have the plugins and rules in our system. The last step is to configure Falco to use them.
```

> Modify your `/etc/yaml` to make it looks like this (with the relevant values for `REGION`, `ACCOUNT_ID` and `CLUSTER_NAME`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modify your `/etc/yaml` to make it looks like the following (with the relevant values for `REGION`, `ACCOUNT_ID`, and `CLUSTER_NAME`):
```

```yaml
rules_file:
  ...
  - /etc/k8s_audit_rules.yaml

plugins:
  - name: k8saudit-eks
    library_path: libk8saudit-eks.so
    init_config:
      region: "{REGION}"
      profile: "{AWS_PROFILE}"
      shift: 10
      polling_interval: 10
      use_async: false
      buffer_size: 500
    open_params: "{CLUSTER_NAME}"
  - name: json
    library_path: libjson.so
    init_config: ""

load_plugins: ["k8saudit-eks","json"]
...
```

> You can now restart Falco `sudo systemctl restart` and monitor the audit logs of your EKS cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now restart Falco (`sudo systemctl restart`) and monitor the audit logs of your EKS cluster:
```

Wed May 10 14:07:18 2023: Falco initialized with configuration file: /etc/yaml                                                                                                                   
Wed May 10 14:07:18 2023: Loading plugin 'k8saudit-eks' from file /usr/share/plugins/libk8saudit-eks.so                                                                                                
Wed May 10 14:07:18 2023: Loading plugin 'json' from file /usr/share/plugins/libjson.so                                                                                                                
Wed May 10 14:07:18 2023: Loading rules from file /etc/k8s_audit_rules.yaml                                                                                                                            
Wed May 10 14:07:18 2023: Loading rules from file /etc/rules.d/override-k8saudit.yaml                                                                                                                  
Wed May 10 14:07:18 2023: Starting health webserver with threadiness 4, listening on port 8765                                                                                                               

> Wed May 10 14:07:18 2023: Enabled event sources: k8s_audit                                                                                                                                                   

Reviewer: Did you disable the syscall module? I don't see it in the config, but also don't see its output in the logs.

Wed May 10 14:07:18 2023: Opening capture with plugin 'k8saudit-eks' 
```

> And get alers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And get alerts:
```

> And get alers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And get alerts:
```

```shell
14:09:17.699479000: Informational K8s Serviceaccount Created (user=system:node:ip-192-168-34-135.ec2.internal serviceaccount=default ns=default resource=serviceaccounts resp=201 decision=allow reason=)
14:09:24.046826000: Notice Attach/Exec to pod (user=kubernetes-admin pod=kubecon resource=pods ns=default action=exec command=sh)
```

### Kubernetes installation

> Let's see now how to install the `k8saudit-eks` plugin with `falcoctl` tool. We'll use the official Helm chart with this `values.yaml` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we will see how to install the `k8saudit-eks` plugin with the `falcoctl` tool in a Kubernetes setup. We'll use the official Helm chart with the following `values.yaml` file:
```

```yaml
serviceAccount:
  create: true
  annotations:
    - eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn: {ROLE_ARN}

falco:
  rules_file:
    - /etc/falco/k8s_audit_rules.yaml
    - /etc/falco/rules.d
  plugins:
    - name: k8saudit-eks
      library_path: libk8saudit-eks.so
      init_config:
        shift: 10
        polling_interval: 10
        use_async: false
        buffer_size: 500
      open_params: "{CLUSTER_NAME}"
    - name: json
      library_path: libjson.so
      init_config: ""
  load_plugins: [k8saudit-eks, json]

falcosidekick:
  enabled: true

driver:

>   enabled: false

Reviewer: Now I see that you have disabled it.

Author: You were right, I forgot to mention in the local installation that I did it. I fixed.

collectors:
  enabled: false

controller:
  kind: deployment
  deployment:
    replicas: 1

falcoctl:
  indexes:
  - name: falcosecurity
    url: https://falcosecurity.github.io/falcoctl/index.yaml
  artifact:
    install:
      enabled: true
    follow:
      enabled: true
  config:
    artifact:
      allowedTypes:
        - plugin
        - rulesfile
      install:
        resolveDeps: false
        refs: [k8saudit-rules:0, k8saudit-eks:0, json:0]
      follow:
        refs: [k8saudit-rules:0]
```

> Let's explain this explain section by section:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's look into this configuration section by section:
```

> Let's explain this explain section by section:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's look into this configuration section by section:
```

```yaml
serviceAccount:
  create: true
  annotations:
    - eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn: {ROLE_ARN}
```

> With EKS, we can use an OIDC provider and annotations on the service accounts to allow the access to the AWS API. See [the official docs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/enable-iam-roles-for-service-accounts.html). This section allows you to set the `ROLE_ARN` to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With EKS, we can use an OIDC provider and annotations on the service accounts to allow access to the AWS API ( see [the official docs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/enable-iam-roles-for-service-accounts.html)). This section allows you to set which `ROLE_ARN` to use.
```

Reviewer: I don't know what `ROLE_ARN` is. What does `ARN` stand for?

```yaml
falco:
  rules_file:
    - /etc/falco/k8s_audit_rules.yaml
    - /etc/falco/rules.d
  plugins:
    - name: k8saudit-eks
      library_path: libk8saudit-eks.so
      init_config:
        shift: 10
        polling_interval: 10
        use_async: false
        buffer_size: 500
      open_params: "{CLUSTER_NAME}"
    - name: json
      library_path: libjson.so
      init_config: ""
  load_plugins: [k8saudit-eks, json]
```

> Like for the local installation, this section allows to set the usage of the plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the local installation, this section sets the used plugins.
```

```yaml
driver:
  enabled: false
collectors:
  enabled: false

controller:
  kind: deployment
  deployment:
    replicas: 1
```

{{% pageinfo color="warning" %}}

> Falco must be installed as a DaemonSet to have one instance per node in your cluster, but for the `k8saudit-eks` plugin, we MUST run only 1 pod to avoid to pull same logs several times and duplicate alert. This is why we deploy Falco as a 1 replica deployment. The syscalls and Kubernetes metadata collections are also disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice that we deploy Falco as a 1 replica deployment. For the `k8saudit-eks` plugin, we MUST run only 1 pod to avoid pulling the same logs several times and duplicating alerts. This deployment is different from the system-call one, in which Falco is installed as a DaemonSet to have one instance per node in your cluster. The system-call deployment is disabled along with the Kubernetes metadata collection.
```

Reviewer: I am still not happy with the result. There is too much information here if you are not familiar with it. Would it make sense to break the explanation into two parts? Or do they only make sense together? Could I have a single configuration that enables the system-call deamonset deployment AND the 1 replicaset deployment?

Author: We can't deploy falco in the 2 methods with a single values.yaml. This is why I'm explaining. Let me find a better explanation.

{{% /pageinfo %}}

```yaml
falcoctl:
  indexes:
  - name: falcosecurity
    url: https://falcosecurity.github.io/falcoctl/index.yaml
  artifact:
    install:
      enabled: true
    follow:
      enabled: true
  config:
    artifact:
      allowedTypes:
        - plugin
        - rulesfile
      install:
        resolveDeps: false
        refs: [k8saudit-rules:0, k8saudit-eks:0, json:0]
      follow:
        refs: [k8saudit-rules:0]
```

> The last section is there to set up `falcoctl`. It will install the requested rules and plugins and track the new versions of the rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last section sets up `falcoctl`. It will install the requested plugins and rules and track new versions of the rules.
```

* Get started in [Falco.org](http://falco.org/)
* Check out the [Falco project in GitHub](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco).

> * Get involved in the [Falco community](https://org/community/falco).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Get involved in the [Falco community](https://falco.org/community/).
```
